US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
says he wants to make sure the conflict
in Gaza doesn't spread this morning he
traveled to Jordan as part of a
week-long diplomatic tour aimed at
calming tensions blinkin says he's
particularly concerned about exchanges
of fire on Israel's northern border with
Lebanon US Secretary of State Anthony
blinken's week-long Whistle Stop tour is
aimed at calming tensions that have
spiked since Israel's war with Hamas
began this is not just work a day
diplomacy there is genuine concern that
the conflict is already
escalating we have an intense focus on
preventing this conflict from spreading
far too many Palestinians have been
killed especially children far too many
uh remain incredibly challenged in terms
of their access to food to water to
medicine to the essentials of life as
the wheels of diplomacy turn in Gaza
there's been no letup in the past 3
months Israeli strikes claim more lives
food and Medicine are increasingly
scarce and entire neighborhoods are
reduced to
Rubble the un's humanitarian Chief said
Gaza has quote simply become
uninhabitable but Israel says that it is
making
progress at the end of Fierce and
determined fighting we have dismantled
the Hamas military framework in
jabalia
we shall continue to deepen our
achievements in these areas it takes
time there are no shortcuts in the war
on
terror the risk of escalation is what
concerns diplomats the most in
particular the border between Israel and
Lebanon the Israeli Army and Hezbollah
forces have been exchanging shells
almost daily since October
7 earlier this week a strike in Beirut
that killed senior Hamas leader Salah
arui inflamed tensions even
further meanwhile inside Israel there
are now regular anti-government
protests demonstrators are increasingly
dissatisfied with the government's
handling of the war and the slow
progress in getting the hostages
returned some are even calling for the
Prime Minister and his government to
step down the hope is that this
increased pressure both domestically and
internationally
can help produce a much needed
breakthrough and for more on this we're
joined by Jason cedonia who is the Los
Angeles bureau chief for NBC News Radio
uh Jason blinkin says he wants to make
sure the conflict in the Middle East
doesn't spread what's the risk for the
us if that
happens uh it could mean that we are
going to engage in a war that is not
ours for lack of a better term um and
that may look like a loss in the
election year here in the United States
for the administration and President Joe
Biden uh if we get involved in something
like that especially with heavy military
action increasing in the area of the
Gaza Strip um I think right now the show
of The American Secretary of State going
out there is uh a 50/50 it's a coin
flare if they get out there and say hey
we don't want this thing to spread we
don't want any other countries involved
we don't want any other groups involved
and nothing happens a ceasefire doesn't
happen more Aid get into the area that's
going to look uh like the trip was all
show and no go and I'm not sure that's
going to bode well here in the with the
American voter and you're talking about
American voters and that this is an
election year what is the perception in
the US public of the war in Gaz and how
could it affect Biden's chances of
getting
reelected well I think if you go with
the American Allies which you know
Israel is uh is our Ally there and I
think if you are going to the polls and
you had to vote today um I really feel
that the war in the Middle East uh not
enough is being done and I think the
American voter feels that way you know
right now not enough is being done to
stop the killing of innocent people
people in the Gaza Strip uh we have
protests every day in the United States
on both sides Pro Palestinian pro-israel
and when those two groups get together
it's a violent protest and so I think I
think this is going to be an uphill
battle for the Biden Administration and
I think sending the secretary of state
is their way of saying hey we're here
but critics are already saying that this
is America doing what America does they
go to other countries to tell that
country how to run the country so that
may not bode well uh as the week-long
trip for the Secretary of State
continues understood Jason cidonia with
NBC News Radio thanks so
much thank
you